By the early 1970s, governments, the military and business were using computer
encryption, but there was no standard. People used different forms of' complex
substitution and transposition. This meant that organisations might not be able
to talk to each other because they used different encryption systems. Also, the
lack of' a standard meant that nobody could be sure that their encryption system
was sufficiently secure.

The Data Encryption Standard (DES) was armounced in 1977. It has a key length
of' 56 bits. This encryption algorithm was published, so anybody could examine it
in detail. Remember, the strength of' an encryption system does not rely on
keeping the algorithm secret, but rather on keeping the key secret.

The sender of' a DES encrypted messabge picks a 56-bit key. This means you could
choose any number between 1 and 25 (i.e., any number up to 7.2 x 101 ). This
number will determine how the message is encrypted. The receiver uses the same
key to decrypt the message. An eavesdropper has to identify the key in order to
break the cipher.

DES has a billion times fewer keys than the old-fashioned monoalphabetic
substitution cipher, but it is stronger because it appears to have no short cuts. To
crack DES, it is necessary to check every key. To crack the monoalphabetic
substitution cipher, you can get away with the shortcut of' frequency analysis.

However, DES is not unbreakable. When the key length was decided in the 1970s,
checking 7.2 x 1016 keys was impractical, but since then computers have doubled
in speed roughly every 18 months. Now, there are specially designed computers
that can crack DES within a few hours. Other modern ciphers have since been
developed to keep the codemakers ahead of' the codebreakers. Click on the
button to find out how DES works
