The crucial technical problem is maintaining the
polarisation of the photons. If this changes
during transit, Alice and Bob's error-checking
procedure will find discrepancies even if Eve is
not eavesdropping, so no valid key will emerge.

One way round this is to send photons down
optical fibres, which conserve the polarisation.
Already, this approach has allowed
quantum-encrypted messages to be sent over
significant distances. In 1995, researchers at the
University of Geneva successfully sent a message
down an optical fibre to the town of Nyon, more
than 20 kilometres to the north. This year,
researchers at Los Alamos established a new
record when they sent a quantum key through a
48-kilometre optical fibre-long enough to set up
a network between neighbouring branches of a
bank say, or government offices. But extending
the technology any further is more problematic,
because individual photons struggle to survive
the journey through the fibres without being
absorbed. Over distances of hundreds or
thousands of kilometres, the signal would
dwindle to nothing.
