There is always the possibility that Eve
intercepts a photon and guesses correctly when
she retransmits it. If such a photon is used as
part of the error-checking procedure, then no
error appears, and Eve's presence is not
betrayed. But as Bob and Alice check more and
more bits, Eve's chances of avoiding detection
become vanishingly small.

Once the key has been sent successfully, Alice
uses it to encrypt her message. She can then
send the message by phone, pigeon post or
whatever. Safely encoded, it can't be deciphered
by anybody but Bob, even if it's there for all to
see.

It was not until 1989, five years after Bennett
and Brassard invented quantum cryptography,
that they tested it experimentally. One
computer, Alice, sent a stream of photons
through 32 centimetres of air to a second
computer, Bob. Bennett and Brassard had
successfully transmitted the world's most secure
key.

Other experimenters soon began to design
systems that operated over more useful
distances.
