The strength of the Vigenere cipher is that the same letter 
can he encrypted in different ways. For example, if the 
keyword is KING, then every plaintext letter can he 
encrypted in 4 ways, because the keyword contains 4 
letters. Each letter of the keyword defines a different 
cipher alphabet in the Vigenere square. The 'e' column of 
the square is highlighted to show how encipherment depends 
on which keyword letter is defining the encryption. 
Similarly, whole words will he enciphered in different ways 
â€” the word 'the' could he enciphered as DPR, BUK, GNO and 
ZRM depending on its position relative to the keyword. 
Although this makes cryptanalysis difficult, it is not 
impossible. The important point to note is that if there 
are nary four ways to encipher the word 'the', and the 
original message contains several uses of the word 'the', 
then it is inevitable that some of the four possible 
enciphermears will he repeated in the cipher... This is 
demonstrated in this example, in which the line "The Sun 
and the Man in the Moon", has been enciphered using the 
Vigenere cipher and the keyword KING. The word 'the' is 
enciphered as DPR in the first instance, and then as BUK on 
the second and third occasions. The reason for the 
repetition of BUK is that the second 'the' is displaced by 
8 letters with respect to the third 'the', and S is a 
multiple of the length of the keyword. In other words, the 
second 'the' was enciphered according to its relationship 
to the keyword, and by the time we reach the third 'the', 
the keyword has cycled round exactly twice, to repeat the 
relationship. 

