Alberti's cipher used 2 cipher alphabets. 
However, the Vigenere cipher uses 26 distinct 
cipher alphabets!

The 26 cipher alphabets are contained in the 
Vigenere square, shown here, which has a 
plaintext alphabet followed by 26 cipher 
alphabets, each one shifted by one more letter 
with respect to the previous one. Hence, row 
number 1 represents a cipher alphabet with a 
Caesar shift of 1, row number 2 represents a 
cipher alphabet with a Caesar shift of 2, etc.

A different row of the square can be used to 
encrypt each letter of the message. In other 
words, the sender might encrypt the first letter 
according to row 5, the second according to row 
14, and the third letter according to row 21, and 
so on. In order to unscramble the message, it is 
important that the intended receiver knows 
which row of the Vigenere square has been used 
to encipher each letter, and so there must be an 
agreed system of switching between rows. This 
agreement is achieved via a keyword.

To see how a keyword is used to implement the 
Vigenere cipher, click onto the Next Page.
